doc(server-side-events): create event emitter (#847)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: docs/04-api-reference/front-commerce-core/ServerEvent.mdx

---
title: "ServerEvent"
sidebar_position: 8
description:

>   "The ServerEvent class define ServerEvent format used in Front-Commerce to be
>   published to the server event worker."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "The `ServerEvent` class defines the format used in Front-Commerce to publish events to the server event pipeline."
```

---

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

## Usage:

```ts
import { ServerEvent } from "@front-commerce/core/events";

// We define a static event Name for our event

> const MyEventName = "MyEvent";

Reviewer: **question:** Why declaring it in an external `const` rather than inlining it directly where it's used, since it is (and should be) only used one time?

**suggestion:** Remove this declaration and hardcode it directly in the constructor.

> // Definition of the payload
> type MyEventPayload = {
>   sku: string;
>   price: boolean;
> };

Reviewer: **thought:** I think the type's name is self-explanatory enough.

**suggestion:** Remove the comment.

```suggestion
type MyEventPayload = {
  sku: string;
  price: boolean;
};
```

Author: Fixed with your suggestion

export default class MyEvent extends ServerEvent<MyEventPayload> {

>   static event_type = MyEventName;

Reviewer: **issue:** I don't think (nor know why) this should be declared as a `static`. Scalar values are not complex enough to justify taking permanent memory space IMO.

**suggestion:** Remove this declaration, and inline the string in the constructor directly.

Author: That's a good question, it has been directly inspired from what @paul-vd did on the OrderPlaced event : https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/main/packages/core/events/domain/events/OrderPlacedEvent.ts?ref_type=heads#L24 maybe he can give us more details on this

Reviewer 2: The reason was for future usage, so that we can expose it without creating an instance of order placed, for example in the cloud server events: https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/cloud/front-commerce-scripts/-/blob/main/server-events-module/index.ts?ref_type=heads#L8,

Technically that should come from
```
OrderPlaced.event_type
```
Instead of defining an inline string ``"OrderPlaced"`` because if that changes between versions, we will now not have access to the updated event_type

Author: Restored since @paul-vd answer make sense to me

  constructor(sku: string, price: number, shopId: string) {
    super(MyEventName, new Date(), { sku, price }, { shopId });
  }
}
```

When implementing this class, you must define the variable you want to
manipulate in the constructor, then call `super` (which is ServerEvent

> constructor) with parameters formatted like the following.

Reviewer: >  you must define the variable you want to manipulate in the constructor

**issue:** I'm not sure what this means. What variable are you talking about? Why does your example doesn't feature any variable in said constructor if it's necessary?

Author: This is kind of useless i think, i was thinking about explaining you can do stuff before calling super (like computing a new variable to pass to the event).

Author: removed
